docs: clarify how upgrades are evaluated (#3935)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/cluster-management/platform-settings/pause-platform-upgrades.md

---

> Palette supports the **Pause Agent Upgrades** feature to exclude a cluster or a group of clusters from getting

Reviewer: this isn't correct, it is NOT about upgrading the cluster itself, only the agent that runs in the cluster

automatically upgraded when Palette is upgraded.

## Pause Agent Upgrade Scopes

> Upgrades can be paused and resumed in the following scopes:

Reviewer: we need to be very  clear this is about agent upgrades throughout the document

- Pause upgrades for a single cluster
- Pause upgrades for all clusters within a project
- Pause upgrades for all clusters within a tenant

> When determining if the agent upgrades for one cluster is paused or not, you only need to look at the setting for the

Reviewer: Maybe:
"Agent upgrade settings are **always** applied based on individual cluster settings. Project and Tenant agent upgrade settings are not inherited - instead cluster level settings are set to match each time Project and Tenant level settings are changed."

cluster itself. Even if agent upgrades are paused on a tenant or project level, agent upgrades for an individual cluster
can still be turned on.

Pausing or resuming agent upgrades at a higher-level scope will automatically pause or resume agent upgrades in the
lower-level scopes. For example, if you pause agent upgrades at the tenant level, then agent upgrades will be paused for
all projects within that tenant, and all clusters within those projects. Similarly, if you resume upgrades at the

> project level, then all clusters within that project will have their agent upgrades resumed.

Reviewer: maybe add more, to help clarify:
"If the tenant admin subsequently changes the tenant level setting again, then all projects and clusters will be changed again to match."

> This is a one-time change that happens at the moment when you pause or resume upgrades in the higher scope, and it does

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a one-time change that happens at the moment when you pause or resume upgrades in the project or tenant scope, and it does
```

not mandate that the same setting be kept at the lower scopes. If you pause or resume agent upgrades in a lower-level
scope, it will override the setting from the higher-level scope. For example, even if all agent upgrades are paused at
the tenant level, you can override the tenant-level pause by resuming upgrades in a specific project or a specific
cluster. However, if you resume upgrades at the tenant level, and then pause again at the tenant level, it will pause
agent upgrades for all clusters within the tenant, including clusters where you manually overrode the tenant-level
settings and resumed agent upgrades.

## Agent Upgrades for PCG and Edge Hosts

> Aside from clusters, you can also pause the agent upgrades on Private Cloud Gateways (PCG) and Edge hosts that are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside from clusters, you can also pause agent upgrades on Private Cloud Gateways (PCG) and Edge hosts that are
```

registered with Palette but are not part of a cluster.

> Since PCGs are scoped to tenants, you can pause the agent upgrades on a PCG by pausing agent upgrades on the tenant to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because PCGs are scoped to tenants, you can pause the agent upgrades on a PCG by pausing agent upgrades on the tenant to
```

which the PCG is associated. You can also pause or resume upgrades for a PCG in the PCG details page through **Cluster
Settings**. Similar to clusters, pausing and resuming upgrades at the tenant level will pause or resume agent upgrades
for all PCGs in the tenant. Pausing and resuming upgrades for a PCG individually will override the tenant-level setting.

Edge hosts that are part of a cluster have their agent upgrades managed by the settings of their cluster. Edge hosts
that are not part of a cluster have their agent upgrades managed at the project and tenant level. Similar to clusters,
pausing or resuming agent upgrades at the tenant level will automatically pause or resume agent upgrades for all

> projects with in that tenant. However, you can override the tenant level setting by manually changing the upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
projects within that tenant. However, you can override the tenant level setting by manually changing the upgrade
```
